README.md, before:

# Mesosphere Universe

| Build | Status |
|---|---|
|CI   | [![Build Status](https://teamcity.mesosphere.io/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/buildType:(id:Oss_Universe_Ci)/statusIcon)](https://teamcity.mesosphere.io/viewType.html?buildTypeId=Oss_Universe_Ci&guest=1)|
| Universe Server | [![Build Status](https://teamcity.mesosphere.io/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/buildType:(id:Oss_Universe_UniverseServer)/statusIcon)](https://teamcity.mesosphere.io/viewType.html?buildTypeId=Oss_Universe_UniverseServer&guest=1)|
Mesosphere Universe registry of packages made available for DC/OS Clusters.

#### Table of Contents
* [Universe Purpose](#universe-purpose)
* [Publish a Package](#publish-a-package-1)
  * [Creating a Package](#creating-a-package)
    * [`package.json`](#packagejson)
      * [`.minDcosReleaseVersion`](#mindcosreleaseversion)
    * [`config.json`](#configjson)
    * [`marathon.json.mustache`](#marathonjsonmustache)
    * [`command.json`](#commandjson)
    * [`resource.json`](#resourcejson)
      * [Docker Images](#docker-images)
      * [Images](#images)
      * [CLI Resources](#cli-resources)
  * [Submit your Package](#submit-your-package)
* [Repository Consumption](#repository-consumption-1)
  * [Universe Server](#universe-server)
    * [Build Universe Server locally](#build-universe-server-locally)
    * [Run Universe Server](#run-universe-server)
  * [Consumption Protocol](#consumption-protocol)
  * [Supported DC/OS Versions](#supported-dcos-versions)

## Universe Purpose
This git repo facilitates three necessary functions to publish, store and consume packages.

### Publish a Package

To publish a package to Universe, fork this repo and open a Pull Request. A set of automated builds will be run against
the Pull Request to ensure the modifications made in the PR leave the Universe well formed.
See [Creating a Package](#creating-a-package) for details.

### Registry of Packages

The registry of published packages is maintained as the contents of this repo in the `repo/packages` directory. As of
repository version `3.0` multiple packaging versions are allowed to co-exist in the same repository. Validation of
packages are coordinated based on the packaging version defined in `package.json`.

### Repository Consumption

In order for published packages to be consumed and installed in a DC/OS Cluster the Universe Server needs to be built
and run in a location accessible by the DC/OS Cluster. See [Universe Server](#universe-server) for details on
building the Universe artifacts and Server.

## Publish a Package

### Creating a Package

Each package has its own directory, with one subdirectory for each package revision. Each package revision directory
contains the set of files necessary to create a consumable package that can be used by a DC/OS Cluster to install
the package.
```
└── repo/package/F/foo
    ├── 0
    │   ├── command.json
    │   ├── config.json
    │   ├── marathon.json.mustache
    │   ├── resource.json
    │   └── package.json
    ├── 1
    │   ├── command.json
    │   ├── config.json
    │   ├── marathon.json.mustache
    │   ├── resource.json
    │   └── package.json
    └── ...
```


#### `package.json`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|required|
|3.0|required|

Every package in Universe must have a `package.json` file which specifies the high level metadata about the package.

Currently, a package can specify one of two values for `.packagingVersion` either `2.0` or `3.0`; which version is declared
will dictate which other files are required for the complete package as well as the schema(s) all the files must
adhere to. Below is a snippet that represents a version `2.0` package.
See [`repo/meta/schema/package-schema.json`](repo/meta/schema/package-schema.json) for the full json schema outlining
what properties are available for each corresponding version of a package.

```json
{
  "packagingVersion": "2.0",
  "name": "foo",
  "version": "1.2.3",
  "tags": ["mesosphere", "framework"],
  "maintainer": "help@bar.io",
  "description": "Does baz.",
  "scm": "https://github.com/bar/foo.git",
  "website": "http://bar.io/foo",
  "framework": true,
  "postInstallNotes": "Have fun foo-ing and baz-ing!"
}
```

###### `.minDcosReleaseVersion`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|not supported|
|3.0|optional|

Introduced in `packagingVersion` `3.0`, `.minDcosReleaseVersion` can be specified as a property of `package.json`.
When `.minDcosReleaseVersion` is specified the package will only be made available to DC/OS clusters with a DC/OS
Release Version greater than or equal to (`>=`) the value specified.

For example, `"minDcosReleaseVersion" : "1.8"` will prevent the package from being installed on clusters older than DC/OS 1.8.

#### `config.json`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|optional|
|3.0|optional|

This file describes the configuration properties supported by the package, represented as a
[json-schema](http://spacetelescope.github.io/understanding-json-schema/). Each property can specify whether or not it
is required, a default value, as well as some basic validation.

Users can then [override specific values](https://docs.mesosphere.com/1.7/usage/services/config/) at
installation time by passing an options file to the DC/OS CLI or by setting config values through the
DC/OS UI (since DC/OS 1.7).

```json
{
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "foo": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "baz": {
          "type": "integer",
          "description": "How many times to do baz.",
          "minimum": 0,
          "maximum": 16,
          "required": false,
          "default": 4
        }
      },
      "required": ["baz"]
    }
  },
  "required": ["foo"]
}
```


#### `marathon.json.mustache`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|required|
|3.0|optional|

This file is a [mustache template](http://mustache.github.io/) that when rendered will create a
[Marathon](http://github.com/mesosphere/marathon) app definition capable of running your service.

Variables in the mustache template will be evaluated from a union object created by merging three objects in the
following order:

1. Defaults specified in `config.json`

2. User supplied options from either the DC/OS CLI or the DC/OS UI

3. The contents of `resource.json`

```json
{
  "id": "foo",
  "cpus": "1.0",
  "mem": "1024",
  "instances": "1",
  "args": ["{{{foo.baz}}}"],
  "container": {
    "type": "DOCKER",
    "docker": {
      "image": "{{resource.assets.container.docker.foo23b1cfe8e04a}}",
      "network": "BRIDGE",
      "portMappings": [
        {
          "containerPort": 8080,
          "hostPort": 0,
          "servicePort": 0,
          "protocol": "tcp"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

See the
[Marathon API Documentation](https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/docs/rest-api.html)
for more detailed instruction on app definitions.

#### `command.json`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|optional|
|3.0|optional **[Deprecated]**|

As of `packagingVersion` `3.0`, `command.json` is deprecated in favor of the `.cli` property of `resource.json`.
See [CLI Resources](#cli-resources) for details.

Describes how to install the package's CLI via pip, the Python package manager. This document represents the
format of a Pip requirements file where each element in the array is a line in the requirements file.

```json
{
  "pip": [
    "https://pypi.python.org/packages/source/f/foo/foo-1.2.3.tar.gz"
  ]
}
```

#### `resource.json`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|optional|
|3.0|optional|

This file contains all of the externally hosted resources (E.g. Docker images, HTTP objects and
images) needed to install the application.

```json
{
  "images": {
    "icon-small": "http://some.org/foo/small.png",
    "icon-medium": "http://some.org/foo/medium.png",
    "icon-large": "http://some.org/foo/large.png",
    "screenshots": [
      "http://some.org/foo/screen-1.png",
      "http://some.org/foo/screen-2.png"
    ]
  },
  "assets": {
    "uris": {
      "log4j-properties": "http://some.org/foo/log4j.properties"
    },
    "container": {
      "docker": {
        "23b1cfe8e04a": "some-org/foo:1.0.0"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

##### Docker Images

For the Docker image, please use the image ID for the referenced image. You can find this by
pulling the image locally and running `docker images some-org/foo:1.0.0`.

##### Images

While `images` is an optional field, it is highly recommended you include icons and screenshots
in `resource.json` and update the path definitions accordingly. Specifications are as follows:

* `icon-small`: 48px (w) x 48px (h)
* `icon-medium`: 96px (w) x 96px (h)
* `icon-large`: 256px (w) x 256px (h)
* `screenshots[...]`: 1200px (w) x 675px (h)

**NOTE:** To ensure your service icons look beautiful on retina-ready displays,
please supply 2x versions of all icons. No changes are needed to
`resource.json` - simply supply an additional icon file with the text `@2x` in
the name before the file extension.
For example, the icon `icon-cassandra-small.png` would have a retina-ready
alternate image named `icon-cassandra-small@2x.png`.

##### CLI Resources
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|not supported|
|3.0|optional|

The new `.cli` property allows for a package to configure native CLI subcommands for several platforms and
architectures.

```json
{
  "cli":{
    "binaries":{
      "darwin":{
        "x86-64":{
          "contentHash":[
            { "algo": "sha256", "value": "..." }
          ],
          "kind": "executable",
          "url":"https://some.org/foo/1.0.0/cli/darwin/dcos-foo"
        }
      },
      "linux":{
        "x86-64":{
          "contentHash":[
            { "algo":"sha256", "value":"..." }
          ],
          "kind":"executable",
          "url":"https://some.org/foo/1.0.0/cli/linux/dcos-foo"
        }
      },
      "windows":{
        "x86-64":{
          "contentHash":[
            { "algo":"sha256", "value":"..." }
          ],
          "kind":"executable",
          "url":"https://some.org/foo/1.0.0/cli/windows/dcos-foo"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Submit your Package

Developers are invited to publish a package containing their DC/OS Service by submitting a Pull Request targeted at
the `version-3.x` branch of this repo.

Full Instructions:

1. Fork this repo and clone the fork:

  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/<user>/universe.git /path/to/universe
  ```

2. Ensure that the `jsonschema` command line tool is installed:

  ```bash
  sudo pip install jsonschema
  ```

3. Run the verification and build script:

  ```bash
  scripts/build.sh
  ```

4. Verify all build steps completed successfully
5. Submit a pull request against the `version-3.x` branch with your changes. Every pull request opened will have a set
   of automated verifications run against it. These automated verification are reported against the pull request using
   the GitHub status API. All verifications must pass in order for a pull request to be eligible for merge.

6. Respond to manual review feedback provided by the DC/OS Community.
  * Each Pull Request to Universe will also be manually reviewed by a member of the DC/OS Community. To ensure your
    package is able to be made available to users as quickly as possible be sure to respond to the feedback provided.


## Repository Consumption

In order for Universe to be consumed by DC/OS the build process needs to be run to create the Universe Server.

### Universe Server

Universe Server is a new component introduce alongside `packagingVersion` `3.0`. In order for Universe to be able to
provide packages for many versions of DC/OS at the same time, it is necessary for a server to be responsible for serving
the correct set of packages to a cluster based on the cluster's version.

All Pull Requests opened for Universe and the `version-3.x` branch will have their Docker image built and published
to the DockerHub image [`mesosphere/universe-server`](https://hub.docker.com/r/mesosphere/universe-server/).
In the artifacts tab of the build results you can find `docker/server/marathon.json` which can be used to run the
Universe Server for testing in your DC/OS cluster.  For each Pull Request, click the details link of the "Universe Server
Docker image" status report to view the build results.

#### Build Universe Server locally

1. Validate and build the Universe artifacts
  ```bash
  scripts/build.sh
  ```

2. Build the Universe Server Docker image
  ```bash
  DOCKER_TAG="my-package" docker/server/build.bash
  ```
  This will create a Docker image `universe-server:my-package` and `docker/server/target/marathon.json` on your local machine

3. If you would like to publish the built Docker image, run
  ```bash
  DOCKER_TAG="my-package" docker/server/build.bash publish
  ```

#### Run Universe Server

Using the `marathon.json` that is created when building Universe Server we can run a Universe Server in our DC/OS
Cluster which can then be used to install packages.

Run the following commands to configure DC/OS to use the custom Universe Server (DC/OS 1.8+):

```bash
dcos marathon app add marathon.json
dcos package repo add --index=0 dev-universe http://universe.marathon.mesos:8085/repo
```

For DC/OS 1.7, a different URL must be used:

```bash
dcos marathon app add marathon.json
dcos package repo add --index=0 dev-universe http://universe.marathon.mesos:8085/repo-1.7
```

### Consumption Protocol

A DC/OS Cluster can be configured to point to multiple Universe Servers; each Universe Server will be fetched via
HTTPS or HTTP. When a DC/OS Cluster attempts to fetch the package set from a Universe Server, the Universe Server
will provide ONLY those packages which can be run on the cluster.

For example:
A DC/OS 1.6.1 Cluster will only receive packages with a `minDcosReleaseVersion` less than or equal to (`<=`) `1.6.1`
in the format the DC/OS Cluster expects.

```
 +----------------------+   +-----------------------+
 │public universe server│   │private universe server│
 +----------------------+   +-----------------------+
                http \         / http
                      \       /
                       \     /
                       +-----+           +--------+
                       │DC/OS│-----------│Marathon│
                       +-----+    http   +--------+
```

### Supported DC/OS Versions
Currently Universe Server provides support for the following versions of DC/OS

| DC/OS Release Version | Support Level |
|-----------------------|---------------|
| 1.6.1                 | Full Support  |
| 1.7                   | Full Support  |
| 1.8                   | Full Support  |
| 1.9                   | Full Support  |
| 1.10                  | Full Support  |

Commit message:

update package submission guidelines (#828)
* update package submission guidelines

* experimental pkg prog usage guideline

README.md, after:

# Mesosphere Universe

| Build | Status |
|---|---|
|CI   | [![Build Status](https://teamcity.mesosphere.io/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/buildType:(id:Oss_Universe_Ci)/statusIcon)](https://teamcity.mesosphere.io/viewType.html?buildTypeId=Oss_Universe_Ci&guest=1)|
| Universe Server | [![Build Status](https://teamcity.mesosphere.io/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/buildType:(id:Oss_Universe_UniverseServer)/statusIcon)](https://teamcity.mesosphere.io/viewType.html?buildTypeId=Oss_Universe_UniverseServer&guest=1)|
Mesosphere Universe registry of packages made available for DC/OS Clusters.

#### Table of Contents
* [Universe Purpose](#universe-purpose)
* [Publish a Package](#publish-a-package-1)
  * [Creating a Package](#creating-a-package)
    * [`package.json`](#packagejson)
      * [`.minDcosReleaseVersion`](#mindcosreleaseversion)
    * [`config.json`](#configjson)
    * [`marathon.json.mustache`](#marathonjsonmustache)
    * [`command.json`](#commandjson)
    * [`resource.json`](#resourcejson)
      * [Docker Images](#docker-images)
      * [Images](#images)
      * [CLI Resources](#cli-resources)
  * [Submit your Package](#submit-your-package)
* [Repository Consumption](#repository-consumption-1)
  * [Universe Server](#universe-server)
    * [Build Universe Server locally](#build-universe-server-locally)
    * [Run Universe Server](#run-universe-server)
  * [Consumption Protocol](#consumption-protocol)
  * [Supported DC/OS Versions](#supported-dcos-versions)

## Universe Purpose
This git repo facilitates three necessary functions to publish, store and consume packages.

### Publish a Package

To publish a package to Universe, fork this repo and open a Pull Request. A set of automated builds will be run against
the Pull Request to ensure the modifications made in the PR leave the Universe well formed.
See [Creating a Package](#creating-a-package) for details.

### Registry of Packages

The registry of published packages is maintained as the contents of this repo in the `repo/packages` directory. As of
repository version `3.0` multiple packaging versions are allowed to co-exist in the same repository. Validation of
packages are coordinated based on the packaging version defined in `package.json`.

### Repository Consumption

In order for published packages to be consumed and installed in a DC/OS Cluster the Universe Server needs to be built
and run in a location accessible by the DC/OS Cluster. See [Universe Server](#universe-server) for details on
building the Universe artifacts and Server.

## Publish a Package

### Creating a Package

Each package has its own directory, with one subdirectory for each package revision. Each package revision directory
contains the set of files necessary to create a consumable package that can be used by a DC/OS Cluster to install
the package.
```
└── repo/package/F/foo
    ├── 0
    │   ├── command.json
    │   ├── config.json
    │   ├── marathon.json.mustache
    │   ├── resource.json
    │   └── package.json
    ├── 1
    │   ├── command.json
    │   ├── config.json
    │   ├── marathon.json.mustache
    │   ├── resource.json
    │   └── package.json
    └── ...
```


#### `package.json`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|required|
|3.0|required|

Every package in Universe must have a `package.json` file which specifies the high level metadata about the package.

Currently, a package can specify one of two values for `.packagingVersion` either `2.0` or `3.0`; which version is declared
will dictate which other files are required for the complete package as well as the schema(s) all the files must
adhere to. Below is a snippet that represents a version `2.0` package.
See [`repo/meta/schema/package-schema.json`](repo/meta/schema/package-schema.json) for the full json schema outlining
what properties are available for each corresponding version of a package.

```json
{
  "packagingVersion": "2.0",
  "name": "foo",
  "version": "1.2.3",
  "tags": ["mesosphere", "framework"],
  "maintainer": "help@bar.io",
  "description": "Does baz.",
  "scm": "https://github.com/bar/foo.git",
  "website": "http://bar.io/foo",
  "framework": true,
  "postInstallNotes": "Have fun foo-ing and baz-ing!"
}
```

For the first version of the package, add this line to the beginning of `preInstallNotes`: ```This DC/OS Service is currently EXPERIMENTAL. There may be bugs, incomplete features, incorrect documentation, or other discrepancies. Experimental packages should never be used in production!``` It will be removed once the package has been tested and used by the community. 

###### `.minDcosReleaseVersion`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|not supported|
|3.0|optional|

Introduced in `packagingVersion` `3.0`, `.minDcosReleaseVersion` can be specified as a property of `package.json`.
When `.minDcosReleaseVersion` is specified the package will only be made available to DC/OS clusters with a DC/OS
Release Version greater than or equal to (`>=`) the value specified.

For example, `"minDcosReleaseVersion" : "1.8"` will prevent the package from being installed on clusters older than DC/OS 1.8.

#### `config.json`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|optional|
|3.0|optional|

This file describes the configuration properties supported by the package, represented as a
[json-schema](http://spacetelescope.github.io/understanding-json-schema/). Each property can specify whether or not it
is required, a default value, as well as some basic validation.

Users can then [override specific values](https://docs.mesosphere.com/1.7/usage/services/config/) at
installation time by passing an options file to the DC/OS CLI or by setting config values through the
DC/OS UI (since DC/OS 1.7).

```json
{
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "foo": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "baz": {
          "type": "integer",
          "description": "How many times to do baz.",
          "minimum": 0,
          "maximum": 16,
          "required": false,
          "default": 4
        }
      },
      "required": ["baz"]
    }
  },
  "required": ["foo"]
}
```


#### `marathon.json.mustache`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|required|
|3.0|optional|

This file is a [mustache template](http://mustache.github.io/) that when rendered will create a
[Marathon](http://github.com/mesosphere/marathon) app definition capable of running your service.

Variables in the mustache template will be evaluated from a union object created by merging three objects in the
following order:

1. Defaults specified in `config.json`

2. User supplied options from either the DC/OS CLI or the DC/OS UI

3. The contents of `resource.json`

```json
{
  "id": "foo",
  "cpus": "1.0",
  "mem": "1024",
  "instances": "1",
  "args": ["{{{foo.baz}}}"],
  "container": {
    "type": "DOCKER",
    "docker": {
      "image": "{{resource.assets.container.docker.foo23b1cfe8e04a}}",
      "network": "BRIDGE",
      "portMappings": [
        {
          "containerPort": 8080,
          "hostPort": 0,
          "servicePort": 0,
          "protocol": "tcp"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

See the
[Marathon API Documentation](https://mesosphere.github.io/marathon/docs/rest-api.html)
for more detailed instruction on app definitions.

#### `command.json`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|optional|
|3.0|optional **[Deprecated]**|

As of `packagingVersion` `3.0`, `command.json` is deprecated in favor of the `.cli` property of `resource.json`.
See [CLI Resources](#cli-resources) for details.

Describes how to install the package's CLI via pip, the Python package manager. This document represents the
format of a Pip requirements file where each element in the array is a line in the requirements file.

```json
{
  "pip": [
    "https://pypi.python.org/packages/source/f/foo/foo-1.2.3.tar.gz"
  ]
}
```

#### `resource.json`
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|optional|
|3.0|optional|

This file contains all of the externally hosted resources (E.g. Docker images, HTTP objects and
images) needed to install the application.

```json
{
  "images": {
    "icon-small": "http://some.org/foo/small.png",
    "icon-medium": "http://some.org/foo/medium.png",
    "icon-large": "http://some.org/foo/large.png",
    "screenshots": [
      "http://some.org/foo/screen-1.png",
      "http://some.org/foo/screen-2.png"
    ]
  },
  "assets": {
    "uris": {
      "log4j-properties": "http://some.org/foo/log4j.properties"
    },
    "container": {
      "docker": {
        "23b1cfe8e04a": "some-org/foo:1.0.0"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

##### Docker Images

For the Docker image, please use the image ID for the referenced image. You can find this by
pulling the image locally and running `docker images some-org/foo:1.0.0`.

##### Images

While `images` is an optional field, it is highly recommended you include icons and screenshots
in `resource.json` and update the path definitions accordingly. Specifications are as follows:

* `icon-small`: 48px (w) x 48px (h)
* `icon-medium`: 96px (w) x 96px (h)
* `icon-large`: 256px (w) x 256px (h)
* `screenshots[...]`: 1200px (w) x 675px (h)

**NOTE:** To ensure your service icons look beautiful on retina-ready displays,
please supply 2x versions of all icons. No changes are needed to
`resource.json` - simply supply an additional icon file with the text `@2x` in
the name before the file extension.
For example, the icon `icon-cassandra-small.png` would have a retina-ready
alternate image named `icon-cassandra-small@2x.png`.

##### CLI Resources
|Packaging Version|   |
|-----------------|---|
|2.0|not supported|
|3.0|optional|

The new `.cli` property allows for a package to configure native CLI subcommands for several platforms and
architectures.

```json
{
  "cli":{
    "binaries":{
      "darwin":{
        "x86-64":{
          "contentHash":[
            { "algo": "sha256", "value": "..." }
          ],
          "kind": "executable",
          "url":"https://some.org/foo/1.0.0/cli/darwin/dcos-foo"
        }
      },
      "linux":{
        "x86-64":{
          "contentHash":[
            { "algo":"sha256", "value":"..." }
          ],
          "kind":"executable",
          "url":"https://some.org/foo/1.0.0/cli/linux/dcos-foo"
        }
      },
      "windows":{
        "x86-64":{
          "contentHash":[
            { "algo":"sha256", "value":"..." }
          ],
          "kind":"executable",
          "url":"https://some.org/foo/1.0.0/cli/windows/dcos-foo"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Submit your Package

Developers are invited to publish a package containing their DC/OS Service by submitting a Pull Request targeted at
the `version-3.x` branch of this repo.

Full Instructions:

1. Fork this repo and clone the fork:

  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/<user>/universe.git /path/to/universe
  ```

2. Ensure that the `jsonschema` command line tool is installed:

  ```bash
  sudo pip install jsonschema
  ```

3. Run the verification and build script:

  ```bash
  scripts/build.sh
  ```

4. Verify all build steps completed successfully
5. Submit a pull request against the `version-3.x` branch with your changes. Every pull request opened will have a set
   of automated verifications run against it. These automated verification are reported against the pull request using
   the GitHub status API. All verifications must pass in order for a pull request to be eligible for merge.

6. Respond to manual review feedback provided by the DC/OS Community.
  * Each Pull Request to Universe will also be manually reviewed by a member of the DC/OS Community. To ensure your
    package is able to be made available to users as quickly as possible be sure to respond to the feedback provided.
7. Add a getting started example of how to install and use the DC/OS package. To add the example, fork the [`examples`](https://github.com/dcos/examples) repo and send in a pull request. Re-use the format from the existing examples there.


## Repository Consumption

In order for Universe to be consumed by DC/OS the build process needs to be run to create the Universe Server.

### Universe Server

Universe Server is a new component introduce alongside `packagingVersion` `3.0`. In order for Universe to be able to
provide packages for many versions of DC/OS at the same time, it is necessary for a server to be responsible for serving
the correct set of packages to a cluster based on the cluster's version.

All Pull Requests opened for Universe and the `version-3.x` branch will have their Docker image built and published
to the DockerHub image [`mesosphere/universe-server`](https://hub.docker.com/r/mesosphere/universe-server/).
In the artifacts tab of the build results you can find `docker/server/marathon.json` which can be used to run the
Universe Server for testing in your DC/OS cluster.  For each Pull Request, click the details link of the "Universe Server
Docker image" status report to view the build results.

#### Build Universe Server locally

1. Validate and build the Universe artifacts
  ```bash
  scripts/build.sh
  ```

2. Build the Universe Server Docker image
  ```bash
  DOCKER_TAG="my-package" docker/server/build.bash
  ```
  This will create a Docker image `universe-server:my-package` and `docker/server/target/marathon.json` on your local machine

3. If you would like to publish the built Docker image, run
  ```bash
  DOCKER_TAG="my-package" docker/server/build.bash publish
  ```

#### Run Universe Server

Using the `marathon.json` that is created when building Universe Server we can run a Universe Server in our DC/OS
Cluster which can then be used to install packages.

Run the following commands to configure DC/OS to use the custom Universe Server (DC/OS 1.8+):

```bash
dcos marathon app add marathon.json
dcos package repo add --index=0 dev-universe http://universe.marathon.mesos:8085/repo
```

For DC/OS 1.7, a different URL must be used:

```bash
dcos marathon app add marathon.json
dcos package repo add --index=0 dev-universe http://universe.marathon.mesos:8085/repo-1.7
```

### Consumption Protocol

A DC/OS Cluster can be configured to point to multiple Universe Servers; each Universe Server will be fetched via
HTTPS or HTTP. When a DC/OS Cluster attempts to fetch the package set from a Universe Server, the Universe Server
will provide ONLY those packages which can be run on the cluster.

For example:
A DC/OS 1.6.1 Cluster will only receive packages with a `minDcosReleaseVersion` less than or equal to (`<=`) `1.6.1`
in the format the DC/OS Cluster expects.

```
 +----------------------+   +-----------------------+
 │public universe server│   │private universe server│
 +----------------------+   +-----------------------+
                http \         / http
                      \       /
                       \     /
                       +-----+           +--------+
                       │DC/OS│-----------│Marathon│
                       +-----+    http   +--------+
```

### Supported DC/OS Versions
Currently Universe Server provides support for the following versions of DC/OS

| DC/OS Release Version | Support Level |
|-----------------------|---------------|
| 1.6.1                 | Full Support  |
| 1.7                   | Full Support  |
| 1.8                   | Full Support  |
| 1.9                   | Full Support  |
| 1.10                  | Full Support  |
